README.md, before:

<!-- # SLAM3R    

Paper: [arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09401)

TL;DR: A real-time RGB SLAM system that performs dense 3D reconstruction via points regression with feed-forward neural networks. -->


<p align="center">
  <h2 align="center">[CVPR 2025 Highlight] SLAM3R: Real-Time Dense Scene Reconstruction from Monocular RGB Videos</h2>
 <p align="center">
    <a href="https://ly-kc.github.io/">Yuzheng Liu*</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://siyandong.github.io/">Siyan Dong*</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://ffrivera0.github.io/">Shuzhe Wang</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://yd-yin.github.io/">Yingda Yin</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://yanchaoyang.github.io/">Yanchao Yang</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://fqnchina.github.io/">Qingnan Fan</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://baoquanchen.info/">Baoquan Chen</a>
  </p>
  <h3 align="center"><a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09401">Paper</a> | <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1SHYkCTqHc">Video</a> | <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1H631eKi6Vz-ijHcKt1JGyio-puxIYBvJ/view?usp=drive_link">Poster</a> </h3>
<!-- <div style="line-height: 1;" align=center>
  <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09401" target="_blank" style="margin: 2px;">
    <img alt="Arxiv" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Arxiv-SLAM3R-red" style="display: inline-block; vertical-align: middle;"/>
  </a>
</div> -->

  <div align="center"></div>
</p>

<div align="center">
  <img src="./media/replica.gif" width="49%" /> 
  <img src="./media/wild.gif" width="49%" />
</div>

<p align="center">
<strong>SLAM3R</strong> is a real-time dense scene reconstruction system that regresses 3D points from video frames using feed-forward neural networks, without explicitly estimating camera parameters. 
</p>
<be>


## News

* **2025-10:** We have released the code for **online reconstruction and visualization**.

* **2025-04:** SLAM3R is reported by [机器之心(Chinese)](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/fK5vJwbogcfwoduI9FuQ6w) 

* **2025-04:** 🎉 SLAM3R is selected as a **highlight paper** in CVPR 2025 and **Top1 paper** in China3DV 2025.

## Table of Contents

- [News](#news)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Demo](#demo)
  - [Replica dataset](#replica-dataset)
  - [Self-captured outdoor data](#self-captured-outdoor-data)
- [Gradio interface](#gradio-interface)
- [Evaluation on the Replica dataset](#evaluation-on-the-replica-dataset)
- [Training](#training)
  - [Datasets](#datasets)
  - [Pretrained weights](#pretrained-weights)
  - [Start training](#start-training)
- [Citation](#citation)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)

## Installation

1. Clone SLAM3R
```bash
git clone https://github.com/PKU-VCL-3DV/SLAM3R.git
cd SLAM3R
```

2. Prepare environment
```bash
conda create -n slam3r python=3.11 cmake=3.14.0
conda activate slam3r 
# install torch according to your cuda version
pip install torch==2.5.0 torchvision==0.20.0 torchaudio==2.5.0 --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118
pip install -r requirements.txt
# optional: install additional packages to support visualization and data preprocessing
pip install -r requirements_optional.txt
```

3. Optional: Accelerate SLAM3R with XFormers and custom cuda kernels for RoPE
```bash
# install XFormers according to your pytorch version, see https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers
pip install xformers==0.0.28.post2
# compile cuda kernels for RoPE
# if the compilation fails, try the propoesd solution: https://github.com/CUT3R/CUT3R/issues/7.
cd slam3r/pos_embed/curope/
python setup.py build_ext --inplace
cd ../../../
```

4. Optional: Download the SLAM3R checkpoints for the [Image-to-Points](https://huggingface.co/siyan824/slam3r_i2p) and [Local-to-World](https://huggingface.co/siyan824/slam3r_l2w) models through HuggingFace 
```bash
from slam3r.models import Image2PointsModel, Local2WorldModel
Image2PointsModel.from_pretrained('siyan824/slam3r_i2p')
Local2WorldModel.from_pretrained('siyan824/slam3r_l2w')
```
The pre-trained model weights will automatically download when running the demo and evaluation code below. 


## Demo
### Replica dataset
To run our demo on Replica dataset, download the sample scene [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NmBtJ2A30qEzdwM0kluXJOp2d1Y4cRcO/view?usp=drive_link) and unzip it to `./data/Replica_demo/`. Then run the following command to reconstruct the scene from the video images: 

 ```bash
 bash scripts/demo_replica.sh
 ```

The results will be stored at `./results/` by default.

### Self-captured outdoor data
We also provide a set of images extracted from an in-the-wild captured video. Download it [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FVLFXgepsqZGkIwg4RdeR5ko_xorKyGt/view?usp=drive_link) and unzip it to `./data/wild/`.  

Set the required parameter in this [script](./scripts/demo_wild.sh), and then run SLAM3R by using the following command:
 
 ```bash
 bash scripts/demo_wild.sh
 ```

When `--save_preds` is set in the script, the per-frame prediction for reconstruction will be saved at `./results/TEST_NAME/preds/`. Then you can visualize the incremental reconstruction process with the following command:

 ```bash
 bash scripts/demo_vis_wild.sh
 ```

A Open3D window will appear after running the script. Please click `space key` to record the adjusted rendering view and close the window. The code will then do the rendering of the incremental reconstruction.

You can also run SLAM3R on your self-captured video with the steps above. You can also select `offline/online` mode for reconstruction. Check the parameters in the [script](./scripts/demo_wild.sh) for more details.

Here are [more tips](./docs/recon_tips.md) for the argument settings in the reconstruction script.


## Gradio interface
We also provide two Gradio interfaces for online/offline reconstruction respectively, where you can upload a directory, specific images or a video to perform the reconstruction. After setting the reconstruction parameters, you can click the 'Run' button to start the process. Modifying the visualization parameters at the bottom allows you to directly display different visualization results without rerunning the inference.

The offline interface can be launched with the following command:

 ```bash
 python app.py
 ```

Here is a demo GIF for the Gradio interface for offline reconstruction (accelerated).

<img src="media/gradio_office.gif" style="zoom: 66%;" />

Meanwhile, the online interface can be launched with the following command:

```bash
python app.py --online
```
Here is a demo GIF for the Gradio interface for online reconstruction (accelerated). A Viser viewer is plugged in to show the incremental reconstruction process.

<img src="media/gradio_online.gif" style="zoom: 66%;" />


## Evaluation on the Replica dataset

1. Download the Replica dataset generated by the authors of iMAP:
```bash
cd data
wget https://cvg-data.inf.ethz.ch/nice-slam/data/Replica.zip
unzip Replica.zip
rm -rf Replica.zip
```

2. Obtain the GT pointmaps and valid masks for each frame by running the following command:
```bash
python evaluation/process_gt.py
```
The processed GT will be saved at `./results/gt/replica`.

3. Evaluate the reconstruction on the Replica dataset with the following command:

```bash
bash ./scripts/eval_replica.sh
```

Both the numerical results and the error heatmaps will be saved in the directory `./results/TEST_NAME/eval/`.

> [!NOTE]
> Different versions of CUDA, PyTorch, and xformers can lead to slight variations in the predicted point cloud. These differences may be amplified during the alignment process in evaluation. Consequently, the numerical results you obtain might differ from those reported in the paper. However, the average values should remain approximately the same.

## Training

### Datasets

We use ScanNet++, Aria Synthetic Environments and Co3Dv2 to train our models. For data downloading and pre-processing, please refer to [here](./docs/data_preprocess.md). 

### Pretrained weights

```bash
# download the pretrained weights from DUSt3R
mkdir checkpoints 
wget https://download.europe.naverlabs.com/ComputerVision/DUSt3R/DUSt3R_ViTLarge_BaseDecoder_224_linear.pth -P checkpoints/
```

### Start training

```bash
# train the Image-to-Points model and the retrieval module
bash ./scripts/train_i2p.sh
# train the Local-to-Wrold model
bash ./scripts/train_l2w.sh
```
> [!NOTE]
> They are not strictly equivalent to what was used to train SLAM3R, but they should be close enough.


## Citation

If you find our work helpful in your research, please consider citing: 
```
@article{slam3r,
  title={SLAM3R: Real-Time Dense Scene Reconstruction from Monocular RGB Videos},
  author={Liu, Yuzheng and Dong, Siyan and Wang, Shuzhe and Yin, Yingda and Yang, Yanchao and Fan, Qingnan and Chen, Baoquan},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.09401},
  year={2024}
}
```


## Acknowledgments

Our implementation is based on several awesome repositories:

- [Croco](https://github.com/naver/croco)
- [DUSt3R](https://github.com/naver/dust3r)
- [NICER-SLAM](https://github.com/cvg/nicer-slam)
- [Spann3R](https://github.com/HengyiWang/spann3r)

We thank the respective authors for open-sourcing their code.

Commit message:

Add Pyoctomap integration for SLAM3R
- Updated README.md to include Pyoctomap integration section.
- Added example scripts for using Pyoctomap with custom videos and the Replica dataset.
- Introduced octree utility functions for creating, inserting, and saving octrees.
- Implemented a main script for incremental octree building during SLAM3R reconstruction.
- Included a visualization script for inspecting octree files.
- Updated requirements.txt to include Pyoctomap dependency.

README.md, after:

<!-- # SLAM3R    

Paper: [arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09401)

TL;DR: A real-time RGB SLAM system that performs dense 3D reconstruction via points regression with feed-forward neural networks. -->


<p align="center">
  <h2 align="center">[CVPR 2025 Highlight] SLAM3R: Real-Time Dense Scene Reconstruction from Monocular RGB Videos</h2>
 <p align="center">
    <a href="https://ly-kc.github.io/">Yuzheng Liu*</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://siyandong.github.io/">Siyan Dong*</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://ffrivera0.github.io/">Shuzhe Wang</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://yd-yin.github.io/">Yingda Yin</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://yanchaoyang.github.io/">Yanchao Yang</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://fqnchina.github.io/">Qingnan Fan</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://baoquanchen.info/">Baoquan Chen</a>
  </p>
  <h3 align="center"><a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09401">Paper</a> | <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1SHYkCTqHc">Video</a> | <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1H631eKi6Vz-ijHcKt1JGyio-puxIYBvJ/view?usp=drive_link">Poster</a> </h3>
<!-- <div style="line-height: 1;" align=center>
  <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09401" target="_blank" style="margin: 2px;">
    <img alt="Arxiv" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Arxiv-SLAM3R-red" style="display: inline-block; vertical-align: middle;"/>
  </a>
</div> -->

  <div align="center"></div>
</p>

<div align="center">
  <img src="./media/replica.gif" width="49%" /> 
  <img src="./media/wild.gif" width="49%" />
</div>

<p align="center">
<strong>SLAM3R</strong> is a real-time dense scene reconstruction system that regresses 3D points from video frames using feed-forward neural networks, without explicitly estimating camera parameters. 
</p>
<be>


## News

* **2025-10:** We have released the code for **online reconstruction and visualization**.

* **2025-04:** SLAM3R is reported by [机器之心(Chinese)](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/fK5vJwbogcfwoduI9FuQ6w) 

* **2025-04:** 🎉 SLAM3R is selected as a **highlight paper** in CVPR 2025 and **Top1 paper** in China3DV 2025.

## Table of Contents

- [News](#news)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Demo](#demo)
  - [Replica dataset](#replica-dataset)
  - [Self-captured outdoor data](#self-captured-outdoor-data)
- [Gradio interface](#gradio-interface)
- [Pyoctomap Integration](#pyoctomap-integration)
- [Evaluation on the Replica dataset](#evaluation-on-the-replica-dataset)
- [Training](#training)
  - [Datasets](#datasets)
  - [Pretrained weights](#pretrained-weights)
  - [Start training](#start-training)
- [Citation](#citation)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)

## Installation

1. Clone SLAM3R
```bash
git clone https://github.com/PKU-VCL-3DV/SLAM3R.git
cd SLAM3R
```

2. Prepare environment
```bash
conda create -n slam3r python=3.11 cmake=3.14.0
conda activate slam3r 
# install torch according to your cuda version
pip install torch==2.5.0 torchvision==0.20.0 torchaudio==2.5.0 --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118
pip install -r requirements.txt
# optional: install additional packages to support visualization and data preprocessing
pip install -r requirements_optional.txt
```

3. Optional: Accelerate SLAM3R with XFormers and custom cuda kernels for RoPE
```bash
# install XFormers according to your pytorch version, see https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers
pip install xformers==0.0.28.post2
# compile cuda kernels for RoPE
# if the compilation fails, try the propoesd solution: https://github.com/CUT3R/CUT3R/issues/7.
cd slam3r/pos_embed/curope/
python setup.py build_ext --inplace
cd ../../../
```

4. Optional: Download the SLAM3R checkpoints for the [Image-to-Points](https://huggingface.co/siyan824/slam3r_i2p) and [Local-to-World](https://huggingface.co/siyan824/slam3r_l2w) models through HuggingFace 
```bash
from slam3r.models import Image2PointsModel, Local2WorldModel
Image2PointsModel.from_pretrained('siyan824/slam3r_i2p')
Local2WorldModel.from_pretrained('siyan824/slam3r_l2w')
```
The pre-trained model weights will automatically download when running the demo and evaluation code below. 


## Demo
### Replica dataset
To run our demo on Replica dataset, download the sample scene [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NmBtJ2A30qEzdwM0kluXJOp2d1Y4cRcO/view?usp=drive_link) and unzip it to `./data/Replica_demo/`. Then run the following command to reconstruct the scene from the video images: 

 ```bash
 bash scripts/demo_replica.sh
 ```

The results will be stored at `./results/` by default.

### Self-captured outdoor data
We also provide a set of images extracted from an in-the-wild captured video. Download it [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FVLFXgepsqZGkIwg4RdeR5ko_xorKyGt/view?usp=drive_link) and unzip it to `./data/wild/`.  

Set the required parameter in this [script](./scripts/demo_wild.sh), and then run SLAM3R by using the following command:
 
 ```bash
 bash scripts/demo_wild.sh
 ```

When `--save_preds` is set in the script, the per-frame prediction for reconstruction will be saved at `./results/TEST_NAME/preds/`. Then you can visualize the incremental reconstruction process with the following command:

 ```bash
 bash scripts/demo_vis_wild.sh
 ```

A Open3D window will appear after running the script. Please click `space key` to record the adjusted rendering view and close the window. The code will then do the rendering of the incremental reconstruction.

You can also run SLAM3R on your self-captured video with the steps above. You can also select `offline/online` mode for reconstruction. Check the parameters in the [script](./scripts/demo_wild.sh) for more details.

Here are [more tips](./docs/recon_tips.md) for the argument settings in the reconstruction script.


## Gradio interface
We also provide two Gradio interfaces for online/offline reconstruction respectively, where you can upload a directory, specific images or a video to perform the reconstruction. After setting the reconstruction parameters, you can click the 'Run' button to start the process. Modifying the visualization parameters at the bottom allows you to directly display different visualization results without rerunning the inference.

The offline interface can be launched with the following command:

 ```bash
 python app.py
 ```

Here is a demo GIF for the Gradio interface for offline reconstruction (accelerated).

<img src="media/gradio_office.gif" style="zoom: 66%;" />

Meanwhile, the online interface can be launched with the following command:

```bash
python app.py --online
```
Here is a demo GIF for the Gradio interface for online reconstruction (accelerated). A Viser viewer is plugged in to show the incremental reconstruction process.

<img src="media/gradio_online.gif" style="zoom: 66%;" />


## Pyoctomap Integration

We provide integration with [pyoctomap](https://github.com/OctoMap/pyoctomap) for efficient octree-based 3D representation. This allows you to build incremental octree maps from SLAM3R's point cloud reconstructions, which is useful for robotics applications, path planning, and efficient 3D storage.

### Quick Start

```bash
# Install pyoctomap
pip install pyoctomap

# Run reconstruction with octree building
bash pyoctomap_integration/example_replica.sh
```

### Features

- **Incremental Octree Building**: Build octree maps as SLAM3R processes frames
- **Color Support**: Preserve RGB colors from SLAM3R reconstruction
- **Efficient Storage**: Compressed .bt (binary) or .ot (text) octree formats
- **ROS Compatible**: Export octrees compatible with ROS octomap packages
- **Batch Processing**: Optimized insertion for better performance

For detailed documentation, see [pyoctomap_integration/README.md](./pyoctomap_integration/README.md).


## Evaluation on the Replica dataset

1. Download the Replica dataset generated by the authors of iMAP:
```bash
cd data
wget https://cvg-data.inf.ethz.ch/nice-slam/data/Replica.zip
unzip Replica.zip
rm -rf Replica.zip
```

2. Obtain the GT pointmaps and valid masks for each frame by running the following command:
```bash
python evaluation/process_gt.py
```
The processed GT will be saved at `./results/gt/replica`.

3. Evaluate the reconstruction on the Replica dataset with the following command:

```bash
bash ./scripts/eval_replica.sh
```

Both the numerical results and the error heatmaps will be saved in the directory `./results/TEST_NAME/eval/`.

> [!NOTE]
> Different versions of CUDA, PyTorch, and xformers can lead to slight variations in the predicted point cloud. These differences may be amplified during the alignment process in evaluation. Consequently, the numerical results you obtain might differ from those reported in the paper. However, the average values should remain approximately the same.

## Training

### Datasets

We use ScanNet++, Aria Synthetic Environments and Co3Dv2 to train our models. For data downloading and pre-processing, please refer to [here](./docs/data_preprocess.md). 

### Pretrained weights

```bash
# download the pretrained weights from DUSt3R
mkdir checkpoints 
wget https://download.europe.naverlabs.com/ComputerVision/DUSt3R/DUSt3R_ViTLarge_BaseDecoder_224_linear.pth -P checkpoints/
```

### Start training

```bash
# train the Image-to-Points model and the retrieval module
bash ./scripts/train_i2p.sh
# train the Local-to-Wrold model
bash ./scripts/train_l2w.sh
```
> [!NOTE]
> They are not strictly equivalent to what was used to train SLAM3R, but they should be close enough.


## Citation

If you find our work helpful in your research, please consider citing: 
```
@article{slam3r,
  title={SLAM3R: Real-Time Dense Scene Reconstruction from Monocular RGB Videos},
  author={Liu, Yuzheng and Dong, Siyan and Wang, Shuzhe and Yin, Yingda and Yang, Yanchao and Fan, Qingnan and Chen, Baoquan},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.09401},
  year={2024}
}
```


## Acknowledgments

Our implementation is based on several awesome repositories:

- [Croco](https://github.com/naver/croco)
- [DUSt3R](https://github.com/naver/dust3r)
- [NICER-SLAM](https://github.com/cvg/nicer-slam)
- [Spann3R](https://github.com/HengyiWang/spann3r)

We thank the respective authors for open-sourcing their code.
